
     This is my submission for JOLIEMOI test:

     Question 1: (SQL) Which artist in this data set lived the longest?

Leni Matthaei is the artist who lived the longest, she managed to reach 108 years old.


     Question 2 : (SQL)  Who are the top 10 artists by the number of artworks?

 The top artists are;
   The number 1 artist is Eugène Atget with 5050 artworks
   The number 2 artist is Louise Bourgeois with 3318 artworks
   The number 3 artist is Ludwig Mies van der Rohe with 2566 artworks
   The number 4 artist is Unknown photographer with 1575 artworks
   The number 5 artist is Jean Dubuffet with 1435 artworks
   The number 6 artist is Lee Friedlander with 1317 artworks
   The number 7 artist is Pablo Picasso with 1310 artworks
   The number 8 artist is Marc Chagall with 1162 artworks
   The number 9 artist is Henri Matisse with 1063 artworks
   The number 10 artist is Pierre Bonnard with 894 artworks


     Question 3: (SQL) Which artist is created the most artwork by total surface area?

Contrarily to the previous questions this  question is open to a multitude of interpretations, the surface
area of artworks can be very complex to calculate, for example measuring the surface are of a sculpture 
can be near impossible. 
     Two answers are proposed for the question, the fist is relatively simple, we only look at 2D 
rectangular artworks.This can be done by looking at the "classification" attribute and only selecting data
entries containing "Print", "Work on Paper", "Photography Research/Reference","Painting", "Photograph"or 
"Drawing", and only selecting the height and width values to measure the surface area. This approach 
returns Louise Bourgeois as the artist with the most surface area with 394.6953 m^2 of art created.
While this approach is straight forward is doesn't take any sculture into consideration nor does it look at 
simple 3D objects like plates or vases. It measures the surface area of 62 490 on 130 000 artworks so 48.07 % 
of the artwork.
     As mentioned previously measuring the surface are of all artworks is impossible however we can increase the
percentage of used artworks to  86.39 % by making a couple assumptions:
-all objects with only a "diameter" attribute are circular objects
-all objects with a "diameter" attribute and a value in "Width","Length","Height" are  cylinders
-all objects with only two values in the "Width","Length","Height" attributes are rectangular artworks
-all objects with three values in "Width","Length","Height" attributes are rectangular prisms
With these assumptions we find that the artist with the most artwork by surface area is James Lee Byars 
with 831.2737 m^2 of art created. 


     Question 4: (Python, R or SQL) Did any artists have artwork acquired during their lifetime?

5767 artists had their artwork acquired during their lifetime. Two assumptions where
made, since we do have access to the exact day of death of artists it is assumed they dies on the first of
January. The second assumption is for artist who have no death date however are born fairly recently, since
the average life expectancy is 78 years, it is assumed that any artist born after 1942 and do not have a 
death year, are still alive today.


     Question 5:  Please review the quality of the data, and present any issues

No database is absolutely perfect, the MoMa database contains a few issues:
1) Column names with gaps, this is very unconventional and makes the sql queries very clunky having to 
surround all column names with quotation marks.
2) Dates, most SQL server have a special data type for dates however "SQLite does not have a storage 
class set aside for storing dates and/or times. Instead, the built-in Date And Time Functions of SQLite
are capable of storing dates and times as TEXT, REAL, or INTEGER values."[from https://www.sqlite.org/datatype3.html]
This means it is possible to store dates as long as they are formatted correctly (ex:YYYY-MM-DD) the MoMa 
database does this correctly in the "Acquisition Date" column of artworks table however only uses the year in 
the artists "Death Year" and "Birth Year".
3) The column "Dimensions" in the table artworks is formatted in a multiple of different way sometime containing
letter and sometime number, making it hard to use.
4) The column "Classification" in the table artworks contains "Mies van der Rohe Archive" and "Frank Lloyd Wright Archive"
these could be combined into one "archives" categorie.
5) Some artworks have multiple "artist ID" these makes joining tables very complicated, these artworks where ignored 
in this assignment, a better practise would be to duplicate them.
6) Some artwork titles seem to be bugs or mistakes (ex:"5 x 5 = 25: Vystavka zhivopisi" (5 x 5 = 25: An Exhibition of Painting))
7) Some artworks have a circumference but no diameter it would logical that artwork with a circumference have a
diameter. It is understandable however that some pieces may have a diameter and no circumference (ex: vase or glass)
8) Some information is incorrect  
